The onager , also known as hemione or Asiatic wild ass, is a species of the family Equidae (horse family) native to Asia. A member of the subgenus Asinus, the onager was described and given its binomial name by German zoologist Peter Simon Pallas in 1775. Five subspecies have been recognized, one of which is extinct.

The Asiatic wild ass is larger than African wild ass at about 290 kg (640 lb) and 2.1 m (6.9 ft) (head-body length). They are reddish-brown or yellowish-brown in color and have broad dorsal stripe on the middle of the back. Unlike most horses and donkeys, onagers have never been domesticated. They are among the fastest mammals, as they can run as fast as 64 km/h (40 mph) to 70 km/h (43 mph). The onager is closely related to the African wild ass, as they both shared the same ancestor. The kiang, formerly considered a subspecies of Equus hemionus, diverged from the Asiatic wild ass and has been acknowledged as a distinct species.

Like most equids, onagers are social animals. Stallions are either solitary or they live in groups of two or three. The males have been observed holding harems of females, but in other studies, the dominant stallions defend territories that attract females. Differences in behaviour and social structure likely are the result of changes in climate, vegetation cover, predation, and hunting.

The social behavior of the Asian wild ass can be very different, depending on different habitats, ranges and even threats by predators and humans. In Mongolia and Central Asia (Equus hemionus hemionus and Equus hemionus kulan), a stove onager stallion can adopt harem-type social groups with several mares and foals in large home areas in the southwest and territory-based social groups in the south and southeast. Also, annual large hikes occur 45 km2 (17 sq mi) to 40 km2 (15 sq mi), where hiking in summer are more limited than in the winter. Partially, onagers also form large group associations of up from 450 to 1,200 individuals, but this usually only takes place on locations with food or water sources. Since dissolving these major units within one day again, there seems to be no overarching hierarchy next to the ranking of the individual herds. There are also "bachelor groups" that young male onagers frequently make during the winter. Such a lifestyle is also seen in the wild horse, the plains zebras (Equus quagga) and mountain zebras (Equus zebra). However, occasional formation of temporary territories can be defended in an aggressive way.

Southern populations of onagers in the Middle East and South Asia tend to have a purely territorial life, where areas partly overlap. Dominant stallions home ranges of 9 km2 (3.5 sq mi), but can also be significantly larger. These territories include food and rest stops and permanent or periodic water sources. The waters are but usually at the edge of a coalfield and not in the center. Frequently committed paths with feces and marked urine, where often the same marker points are used. Mares with foals sometimes find themselves also to small groups, the areas of up to 20 km2 (7.7 sq mi) which overlap with those of the other groups and dominant stallions. Such features are seen in Grévy's zebras (Equus grevyi) and the African wild asses.